In the last lecture we have added protection for certain roots of our application which includes adding
and blog posts and modifying and deleting the blog post.
And this has some consequences.
So if you will now try to add a blog post when you are not authenticated you will see a logging form
so of course you have to create an account first.
But this also has some consequences for our tests because they were written with the assumption that
anyone can add a blog post and then modify it.
So let's go to the Visual Studio code and run the Peach Pit you need to see what has happened.
So now you can see that our tests want to pass and the specific error is that we cannot see the status
like the status is not there.
So you can't see the message and nothing really happens.
So it's a good thing and a bad thing.
Good thing is that we modified the application and now that test has have catched this situation that
it doesn't really work anymore so something has to be done.
And in our case this would be modifying the tests to adapt them to our changing application.
So this is a process which you will have to do constantly when we will be building your applications.
You write tests but when you change something that will help you catch errors but you also would have
to update the tests to reflect the new situation so you can see that inside the posters that we.
There is no place where we actually try to authenticate first.
So this is what we will do right now.
We will see how we can handle this new situation which requires out indication of the users before they
can add and modify blog posts so let's close the terminal and see what we can do here.
So we know that for certain routes like the updating and storing the blog posts we need to the user
to be authenticated first.
But as you know for tests we are creating a separate database so it wouldn't matter if you already have
any users inside the database because we have to create the users for this test and database first.
So where we can do that.
So as you might create that inside specific test like this post test.
Let's think about it first.
So users seem to be a very important part of the application.
We might need them for testing.
Adding posts managing posts and then we might also need them for comments later.
So it might be a common feature of our tests.
So we have this test case base class from which all our tests extend so we can see that post test is
basically extending everything from the test case class.
So it might make sense to actually add a method that will create users inside this particular class.
So let's do that we might add a protected method which isn't publicly accessible but it is only accessible
by the classes that extend this particular class.
And let's simply call it user.
Now we can just create a new model user first but since it has a couple of fields like let's see what
does it actually have.
You can see that there is the name email email verification date password to remember token and timestamps.
So we have actually work with model factories before and explain them.
And it happens to have the larval happens to have the user factory created by default.
So we created one for profile comment and the blog post and outer too but the factory for the user was
already there.
So we do not really have to create one for the user.
We can just use it.
So what we can do is we can return factory User class create so just as a reminder.
This will create a new instance of the User model as defined here so we'll use faker to generate the
name email and some other data and create will create the model and immediately save it to the database.
So we are just returning the model that will be actually already inside the database.
Now one more important thing is if you want to use the fully qualified class name you will have to add
an import like this so we are importing their user from the app namespace.
Now this is now available inside all of our tests.
So inside the posters we can now use this.
So let's find the first test that requires authentication so this doesn't require authentication.
This does need to
that's the first one that will actually require authentication.
So first we will create a user before this test happens.
So let's do user.
And now we can call this method that we have created inside test case like it is part of this class
because now it actually is.
So we have the user created.
But how we can tell laudable that it should try to authenticate as this user first.
So it's fortunately very simple.
There is a method inside Lara a test case based class called Acting US where we can specify a model
for which a lot of us should use to authenticate before it is it will execute the test.
So let's move that maybe a little bit to the bottom
and you can do something like this.
This Acting US and then the lot of the world from from this point on it will treat treat it like it
is authenticated.
So it will be able to try and create a new user.
So let's see if this actually has changed anything.
So now you can see that we have 11 Tests but there are four failures.
So after changing this we should have free failures so one less that you can see that it's correct.
We have free failures so we fixed one of the tests and also the interesting thing is what this acting
US does actual you return.
You can see that from the docs that it returns an instance of this.
And what that means is that you can change those calls with other methods or other methods of the test
case class.
So instead of running things like this you can do something else.
So let's reformat that quickly
you can do something like this acting us and we can even call this user here without assigning it to
the variable because this would make more sense if you would need to do something with the user model.
But we don't.
We just want to authenticate so we don't really have to add those calls beforehand scattered all over
the test.
And now we can just remove those two lines and now we can fix all of the tasks that require authentication.
By adding this simple line before we actually make any requests to our application so we should also
do it here.
We should also do that with the update.
And we the delete
and that should be.
Now let's reopen the terminal and rerun this test so you can see now everything is passing and we have
fixed our test.
So let's repeat again what is happening so inside test case we created our user method which would use
the model the factory to create our new instance of the User model.
Save it to the database.
And now when each test is running remember that we have refreshed database and it's also it's refreshing
the database on each single test so we can safely create a new user using this simple acting.
Sorry.
Using this user method but then we tell our bravo to try to authenticate as this user with the acting
US method which returns instance of this object we are currently in.
So we can safely chain all the other calls.
So that would be it.
And in the next lecture we'll finally modify the blog post table.
We create migration and relation to the user model.